print("Welcome to your fitness guide that will give you tips on how to stay healthy while maintaining a busy lifestyle. ")

def nutrition():
    print("Intro to nutrition: Nutrition is the process of obtaining the food necessary for health and growth according to google. ")
    nutin = input("""What do you want to learn about nutrition. 
    Type function if you want to know the function of foods.
    Type classification if you want to know nutrient classification.
    Type macronutrients if you want to know the macronutrients your body needs.
    Type carbs if you want to know what carbohydrates do for your body.
    Type protein if you want to know what proteins do for your body.
    Type fats if you want to know what fats do for your body.
    Type micronutrients if you want to know about micronutrients.
    Type water if you want to know what water does for your body. """)
    
    if nutin == 'function':
        
        print("Nutrients provide energy, regulate body processes and greatly help in the growth, repair and maintenance of tissues.")

    elif nutin == 'classification':

        print("""These are the Classification of the nutrients:
        Macronutrients:
        - Carbohydrates
        - Fats
        -Proteins
        MicroNutrients:
        -Vitamins
        -Minerals
        Essential Nutrient:
        -water """)

    elif nutin == 'macronutrients':
        print("There are carbohydrates, proteins and fats. ")

    elif nutin == 'carbs':
        print(""" The role of these macros is to refuel the body during high intensity exercise (including HIIT).
        It fuels the brain and spares protein to preserve muscle mass during exercise.
        If you are sedentary: It should make up 40-50% of your daily calories, If you are fairly active it should be 60% of your calories and if if you are a heavy trainer or athlete it should be 70% of your calories.
        Note that 1 gram of carbs is 4 calories and is usually found in grains, dairy and fruit.""")

    elif nutin == 'protein':
        print(""" Protein is overall very important in the tissue structure and important with metabolic regulation.
        The recommended daily allowance is based on grams per pound of body weight. If you are sedentary: you should consume 0.36 g per pound of body weight, if you are recreation ally active: you should consume 0.45-0.68 g per pound of body weight, if you are a competitive athlete (engage in sports competitively usually on a time): you need 0.54-0.82 g per pound of body weight and if you are a teenage athlete: you should consume 0.82 - 0.91 g of protein per pound of body weight.
        Just like carbs, 1 g of protein is 4 calories and is usually found in beans, meat, nuts, lentils, seeds, meat alternatives and some vegetables (notably broccoli). """)

    elif nutin == 'fats':
        print("""The role of fat is to store energy in the body, provide insulation, transport fat soluble vitamins and protect vital organs.
        It is recommended that 20-35% of your daily calories should be fats and saturated fats should only make up less than 10%.
        Unlike carbs and proteins, 1 g of fat has 9 calories and fats is found in oils, nuts, meat and nuts.""")

    elif nutin == 'micronutrients':
        print("""Vitamins: 
        There are water soluble and fat soluble vitamins and all of these perform important roles in regulating and making bodily processes more efficient.
        Nutrition labels can easily help you determine if you have acquired 100% of a certain vitamin.
        
        Minerals: 
        These also regulate body functions. Nutrition labels can easily help you determine if you have acquired 100% of a certain vitamin.""")

    elif nutin == 'water':
        print("This moistens tissues, protects tissue, prevents excretory issues such as constipation, regulates body temperature, lubricates joints and carries nutrients and oxygen to cells.  Water has no calories and is a great way to fight cravings.")
    
    else:
        print("You have not chosen an option, make sure to choose an option carefully.")
        nutrition()